.TH mpipe 1 "May 2013" Manta "Manta Compute Bin"
.SH NAME
.PP
mpipe \- advanced output pipe for the current task
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCmpipe\fR [\-p] [\-r rIdx] [\-H header: value ...] [manta path]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Each invocation of mpipe reads data from stdin, potentially buffers it to local
disk, and saves it as task output.  If a Manta path is given, the output is
saved to that path.  Otherwise, the object is stored with a unique name in the
job's directory.  If \-p is given, required parent directories are automatically
created (like "mkdir \-p").
.PP
If you use mpipe in a task, the task's stdout will not be captured and saved as
it is by default.
.PP
As a simple example,
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ wc | mpipe
.fi
.RE
.PP
is exactly equivalent to just:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ wc
.fi
.RE
.PP
since both capture the stdout of wc and emit it as a single output object.  But
you use mpipe for several reasons:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBNaming\fP: Objects created through automatic stdout capture or through mpipe
with no arguments are automatically given unique names.  You can control the
name yourself by specifying an argument to mpipe:
.PP
$ wc | mpipe /$MANTA_USER/stor/count
.RE
.PP
A job that creates thumbnails from images might use \fB\fCMANTA_INPUT_OBJECT\fR to
infer the desired path for the thumbnail (e.g.,
\fB\fC${MANTA_INPUT_OBJECT}-thumb.png\fR) and then use mpipe to store the output there.
* \fBMultiple outputs\fP: you can invoke mpipe as many times as you want from a
  single task to emit more than one object for the next phase (or as a final job
  output).  A job that chunks up daily log files into hourly ones for subsequent
  per\-hour processing would use this to emit 24 outputs for each input.
* \fBSpecial headers\fP: You can specify headers to be set on output objects using
  the "\-H" option to mpipe, which behaves exactly like the same option on the
  Manta CLI tool \fB\fCmput\fR.
* \fBReducer routing\fP: Finally, in jobs with multiple reducers in a single
  phase, you can specify which reducer a given output object should be routed to
  using the "\-r" option to mpipe.  See "Multiple reducers" below.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ wc | mpipe -H 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *' /$MANTA_USER/public/wc.txt
$ .. | mpipe -r 2
.fi
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC-f [file name]\fR
Treats the contents of \fB\fCfile name\fR as stdin.
.TP
\fB\fC-H '[http-header]: [value]'\fR
Headers to set on the resulting PUT request to Manta.  For example,
\fB\fCAccess-Control-Allow-Origin: *\fR.
.TP
\fB\fC-p\fR
Turns off retries if a PUT fails.
.TP
\fB\fC-r\fR
Send the output to a specific reducer.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Report bugs at Github
.UR https://github.com/joyent/manta-compute-bin/issues
.UE
